This proposal outlines our plan to introduce a Managed Detection Response (MDR) solution for the ongoing monitoring, threat hunting, and incident response services required by the City of New Westminster's cyber security program. In order to properly enhance the security posture of the organization, proactive defense strategies using an industry recognized Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) platform, paired with a managed service to automatically monitor and respond to threats to the City's networks is required. 

Next-Generation EDR Implementation
The City's systems, devices, and cloud solutions are under threat from the continually evolving cyber landscape. With the average time-to-detect (TTD) a threat lasting around 277 days, an effective EDR solution is imperative to mitigating the risk to the City of New Westminster. A major issue that faces any organization implementing an EDR solution is the manpower to design, deploy, test, and maintain the security apparatus. Our firm has extensive experience, particularly in municipal applications, of building mature and thorough threat detection & response models that have proven themselves against modern threat actors. By investing in our managed EDR solution, resources and staff fatigue traditionally experienced by in-house security teams are reduced and City employees can focus on the exceptional roles they already play in our society.

Transitioning To Zero Trust Architecture
Traditional IT security evolved from the idea of a castle behind a moat. Getting inside the castle can be made extremely difficult, but once inside a person is free to do as they please, essentially known as "implicitly trusted". From a security point of view, this is a dangerous route for networks such as the City of New Westminster's due to the fact that should a threat-actor compromise a City's endpoint device, they have essentially crossed the moat. Once implicitly trusted, the threat-actor can laterally move through the network and establish themselves as an Advanced Persistent Threat (APT). This issue becomes even larger when cloud networks are considered, but the solution is a shift in thinking. By assuming a zero-trust model where threats are considered to already be in the castle, principles such as least privilege, microsegmentation, and multi-factor authentication can be evaluated against current standards to produce a security model that continuously works to verify identity and privilege on the network.

Hunting For Threats Before Threat Actors
With our proposed defensive MDR solution, there is another half of the coin. By proactively hunting threats through penetration testing, our firm will provide meaningful action items that will further strengthen the security of the City's networks and devices up to and beyond the scope of the EDR implementation. After briefing with City-assigned security professionals, our firm can provide vulnerability testing and reporting services that follow [insert standard reference here] specifications. Regular reporting on a weekly schedule is standard as well as access to functional dashboards that can provide realtime alerts and notifications to City IT professionals.
